product/productId: 0595344550
product/title: Whispers of the Wicked Saints
product/price: 10.95
review/userId: A3OZDTEEAF8GS9
review/profileName: travelling librarian
review/helpfulness: 6/9
review/score: 1.0
review/time: 1119312000
review/summary: awful beyond belief
review/text: I can't remember the last time I read such a dire book. I howled with laughter all the way through, wondering how much worse it could get - and sure enough, it got worse. If the writing is bad, the plot is ludicrous. A preacher comes to offer condolences the same afternoon that the heroine's husband is shot dead. Within moments they are having sex. The sex is not sensually treated or beautifully described - no, all they do is stick their tongues down each other's throats. The preacher goes to tell his paralysed wife. Her bizarre response - wait for it - is to stick her tongue down his throat. No wonder he veers away. The heroine runs off to work in the heart of Liverpool in a rose garden ten miles long (I kid you not). Did I mention she is dying? But never mind, she'll make a miraculous recovery. She meets another man - even though, conveniently, he's dying too, and she's pregnant by the preacher by now (and, oh joy, she hears the heartbeat of the fetus at a week... truly, a miracle)! The other man lives in castle and is very rich. Of course. They consumate their affair when she sticks her tongue down his throat. Not to worry, she doesn't have to perform this crude tonsil-tickling for long. The preacher turns up again. Everyone in the way drops dead, leaving the coast free for the "wicked saints" of the title to romp without blame or shame into the sunset.I could have kicked myself for buying this book; but I had been fooled by reading a mention of it by a so-called reviewer of The Mermaid Chair (which is a good book.) Then I checked all the other reviews done by reviewers of Ms Haddon's book (you can click on "other reviews" to see what I mean) and believe I have spotted a scam. The reviewers appear to have chosen the same half dozen best sellers to review -- each on the same day! - and in each review of these other genuinely good books they mention Wicked Saints in the most glowing terms. This is cynical piggy-back riding on bona fide books, made worse because this is a very badly edited (and badly written) self published book. I hope few people will be fooled as I was - and as Amazon has been. Be warned!

