product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A2KACA2XFCGS8S
review/profileName: Eric N. Gross
review/helpfulness: 1/1
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1019779200
review/summary: If you want RPG music, this is for you.
review/text: I'm not an expert on Mitsuda's work but I was by no means disappointed by Chrono Cross and the soundtrack it created.Beginning with TIME'S SCAR. Here we have a Celtic dance tune emerging from a quiet beginning whisper. I will admit I love the BRINK OF DEATH although not everyone may agree. The remainder of the first album is like a tour through the music of the first few hours of the game. You'll notice that Arni has two themes for the two worlds, as do many other localities in the game.All along, the tunes are kept simple and in line with the various locations of the game. Rarely do the storyline and music disagree. DREAM OF THE SHORE catches the dark, lonely feeling Serge must have had stranded in the lost world (would have worked better here if it had been autumn in Another World). Other favorites from the first disk are SINGING EMOTIONS, ANOTHER TERMINA which adds a touch of Renaissance style to a Renaissance-style city.Death Volcano is one of the most come-out-of-nowhere themes, as is Child of Time. Beginning from a stir, they grow to match the environment they exist in. The two Guldove themes provide a good example of the contrast between the energetic and vernal Home World and the laid-back, autumnal Another World.The second disc is where it really shines. I won't go through all the examples but will say that Another Marbule and the Magical Dreamers theme are uplifting and excellent. Classical/rock combinations rarely fail.The third disc is haunting, spiritual, romantic, and all. Indeed it is where all the powerful emotions come together in a complex but orderly amalgam. GARDEN OF THE GODS is unforgettable with its choral chant and delicate minor key; the Chronopolis theme shines with futurism and even a touch of scientific socialism. The Fate, Jellyfish, and Orphanage themes stand apart, notably the Jellyfish Sea which really sounds appropriate for an underwater world. It is ambient and environmental.You won't forget the GIRL WHO STOLE THE STARS or TIME OF THE DREAMWATCH, as these are, respectively, the love theme (between Serge and Kid) and the "liberty" overture played in the second intro. After two last super-duper tracks (TOWER OF STARS and DRAGON GOD) we get to the closing music. I found UNSTOLEN JEWEL (Radical Dreamers' LE TRESOR INTERDIT)to be too soft for full effect; the game theme that precedes it is much better. (You have to use the Chrono Cross item to hear it in the game). UNSTOLEN JEWEL reminds me of "My Heart Will Go On" and the main theme from Lord of the Rings in that it is a vocal version of a melody already heard via instruments.Still, by the time this soundtrack is over, you may be either shedding tears or wanting to get the game if you haven't already.

