product/productId: B000058A8F
product/title: Vagrant Story: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: AQ4PP6KUZARAE
review/profileName: PiccoloNamek
review/helpfulness: 0/0
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1117065600
review/summary: One of the very best video game soundtracks every
review/text: When I heard the first few tracks of this OST in an ill-fated battle track contest, I can't say I was too impressed. They seemed to be rather bland and even downright boring. However, I used to also think the same thing about the Final Fantasy Tactics soundtrack, which I now adore. That, and I'm not the type to give up on an entire soundtrack after listening to just a few songs once or twice.That said, I took it upon myself to find the Vagrant Story soundtrack, and I forced myself to listen to it. Several times. Dozens of times even. I played it on the PC. In the car, and my portable players. Eventually, it began to grow on me. I began to appericiate its incredibly dark ambience, its undeniable intelligence, the wonderful quality of the synth, and the sheer complexity of the compositions, a delight for people like me who like to analyze things.I think I first realized "I love this soundtrack" when I felt shivers running down my spine while listening to the end of "Climax of the Grayland Case." How beautiful! Or maybe it was when it thought to myself "That heavy piano playing really does remind me of iron!" while listening to "Iron Crab". Or perhaps it was when I was listening to "Staff Roll" and it made my day a little happier when the main melody kicked in at around 4:25.Or perhaps it was a combination of all of these factors and more, or maybe something else entirely, that I can't really describe. All I can know for sure is that this soundtrack has easily become my second favorite soundtrack, with only FFVI's soundtrack being better in my eyes.I wish I could find a better way to describe exactly how I feel about this soundtrack, but I'm just not eloquent enough. That being said, I think I will give some very short reviews of my favorite tracks.1. Climax of the Grayland Case/IncidentThis is what game music should be! How truly epic! This track showcases pretty much all of the styles that will be used in the rest of the game. The highlight for me is at the end when in the game the sun rises over the edge of the broken stained glass window to the sound of one lone trumpet fanfare. Brilliant. You really just have to see it in context at least once to understand.2. Snowfly ForestThe is my second favorite forest theme, second only to "The Calm Before the Storm" from FFX. It's much less dissonant than the rest of the tracks, but not really very melodic either. It sounds like something out of a fairy tale... a very distorted fairy tale. Some of the parts toward the end almost sound Persian.3. Iron CrabThis is by far my favorite battle track. I've never actually played the game this far but just listening to the music I can picture in my head a giant Iron Crab, snapping and lunging. The heavy, low piano provides the iron, and the brass and percussion provide the crab, I think.4. Staff RollThis has to be the best game ending ever. Honestly, I think it's good enough to be the credits role for a high quality film. The best part is when the main melody kicks in at around 4:20 or so.Other great tracks I like include: Wyvern, Bloody Sin, The Last of Rosencrantz-Curly, Headquarters of the VKP, Dark Element, and Limestone Quarry.All in all a very, very good soundtrack, so much more than just "Video Game Music", and really much closer to a film score. A 10/10 for sure.

