product/productId: 0854968350
product/title: Muslim Women's Choices: Religious Belief and Social Reality (Cross Cultural Perspectives on Women)
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A2OP3N8OXCQEZB
review/profileName: Lyta
review/helpfulness: 6/8
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1121385600
review/summary: Excellent
review/text: This is an excellent book. It offers the opinions of a diverse sample of real Muslim Women with very different attitudes. It will not appeal to those who don't want to listen or who want an anti-islamic feminist political tract. The value of this is that you hear the opinions, educated and not, of the real people involved.Most of the time, the real voices are ignored and what is presented in the name of feminism is non-muslim american female TV personalities yacking endlessly on about the lives and experiences of people they really don't know and don't want to know.What must be understood above all else is that if you wish to change a society or a culture, you must at the very least understand how the people in that culture who disagree with you think. That is what this book does so well. I may not agree at all with the opinion of every woman in the book, but I at least understand how they think after finishing it.What many will never understand is that Islamic Society has changed and is still changing. But it can only change by consensus from within. No amount of cultural imperialism from western countries is going to change anything for the better.There is also more than a little hypocracy. For all the lectures about the veil from American Women, few of them stop to think about why they are themselves forced into certain choices. A veil isn't great, but its a whole lot more confortable than the pantyhose that many Western women must wear effectively as a condition of employment. One wonders at a certain point if its the veil itself they object to or that as constrasted to their money-driven appearance decisons, the veil has a meaning beyond the secular.

