product/productId: B0000630MI
product/title: JVC HR-XVC1U DVD-VCR Combo
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A3UHX0EYOVBGRY
review/profileName: Eliza Doll "Elizaluv"
review/helpfulness: 73/74
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1041724800
review/summary: Perfect for its price!
review/text: I purchased this JVC VHS/DVD combo player after my old VCR pooped out and when I decided I needed a DVD player in my room in addition to the one in our family room. I bought this player when it first came out; VHS/DVD combo players were brand new and seemed much more sensible than separate players. However, I had reservations about this unit, wondering if the quality of the DVD and VHS portions would suffer since both were crammed into one box. My fears were unfounded-- this indeed is a fantastic player!First, I really enjoy the chrome finish; it perfectly matches my silver 24&quot; flat-screen TV. Second, I love the unit's included remote. All of the buttons are solidly formed, and the rew/play/ff/rec/stop/pause buttons glow in the dark for watching movies late at night. Third, the quality of VHS recording is wonderful. I don't know what other reviewers are talking about when they complain of poor quality tape recording; everything I've taped, even on the &quot;EP&quot; (extra-long play) setting, has come out wonderfully. Sometimes, programs taped on certain VCRs look fuzzy on other sets in the house (i.e. if I try to record downstairs with a different VCR and play it back in my room), but anything I tape with this JVC unit is crystal clear on each set in our house. Fourth, I love the different A/V options the JVC unit is capable of utilizing. The JVC unit allows RCA, composite, S-Video, and component cable connections, so use whatever connection works with your TV. I strongly recommend using the component cable hookup as it offers the highest-quality picture. Fifth, I love the functions of the DVD player. Not only does this JVC player offer standard DVD functions like subtitles and markers, it also offers cool functions like zooming. DVDs, CDs, CD-Rs, and VCDs are supported, but SVCDs are not. Sixth, this quality piece of equipment comes at a great price. JVC makes a great unit, and the price is affordable, so don't buy another brand in hopes of getting a better deal.The JVC VHS/DVD player has several A/V options, provides high-quality recording, looks great, comes with a super remote, supports many popular disc formats, and does all of these things for an affordable price. If you're looking for a high-quality, yet modestly-priced piece of equipment to handle your VHS and DVD needs, look no further than this great JVC unit.

