product/productId: 0974289108
product/title: The Ultimate Guide to Law School Admission: Insider Secrets for Getting a "Big Envelope" with Your Acceptance to Law School!
product/price: 14.95
review/userId: A1KZ0RDJZQSY4O
review/profileName: sayock
review/helpfulness: 27/29
review/score: 3.0
review/time: 1090368000
review/summary: No &quot;Insider&quot; Secrets
review/text: If you are someone who is fairly new to the law school admissions process and haven't done much research on what it takes to get into law school, this information might seem very helpful and insightful to you. However, as someone who has read several other books (Richard Montauk's &quot;How To Get Into the Top Law Schools,&quot; Robert Miller's &quot;Law School Confidential&quot; and more) and done the necessary research on the internet, this book brought very little new information to the table. Perhaps the most unique thing about this book is the &quot;15 essential factors&quot;...unfortunately, many of those 15 factors--though essential--are things the average person applying to law school--particularly top law schools--doesn't care about and might cast aside even after reading this book.I do agree with her that many pre-law advisers are ill-prepared to advise pre-law students and don't know nearly as much as they should. However, if the info in this book is the information she provided other pre-law advisers with, then it's nothing that the advisers nor the students couldn't have come up with themselves or elsewhere. I still say Montauk's book is the best on law school admissions out there, regardless of what schools you're interested in. HIS book is the one with all the insider secrets in it. Wright's book is just a very broad overview of the admissions process, in my opinion.The one thing this book totally has in common with Montauk's book that is very disappointing is that they do nothing to help minorities know what the admissons process will truly be like for them or how to handle it. For that, you have to look up books by Evangeline Mitchell. Most books have a tendency to treat everyone the same, as if all the information applies to them the same, and that is deceiving.In conclusion, if you feel pretty well-informed already about admissions or are looking for an extra bit of information that might give you that edge or illuminate your particular situation...this book is not the one for you. Only if you really know very little about law school admissions might this book be worth it...but I'd still say it'd be best to go with Montauk's eye-opening admissions guide.

