product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: AG7RPAOC7L7OZ
review/profileName: Steven Alexander
review/helpfulness: 1/1
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1146182400
review/summary: Mitsuda's Masterpiece
review/text: While Yasunori Mitsuda's score for Chrono Trigger was nicely done and well-composed, it's hard not to notice that it sounds just like what it is: video game music. The game's sequel, on the other hand, while having the same great musical authorship, also sounds much more organic, which is probably why I like the Chrono Cross soundtrack just a little more than its predecessor.Right at the beginning of the first disc "Time's Scar" starts off with a sense of serenity and then grabs your attention by turning into what sounds like a musical stampede. While this is a standout track, many of the pieces just get better from there. The somewhat Carribianesque "Plains of Time" commences with an amazing guitar hook and then proceeds to play the main theme found throughout Chrono Trigger (a very catchy melody which I've always liked). "Dream of the Shore Near Another Ocean" tones things down a bit with its poignant, mournful strings and soft, resplendent keyboard melody playing in the background. Other highlights from disc one include "Aruni Village", "Singing Emotions", "Triumph" (short but sweet), and "Another Galdove."Disc two, being my least favorite of the three, nevertheless has some standout pieces that are not to be missed. "Voyage~Home World" is so amazingly catchy that I simply wore it out after hearing it for the first time. "Chronomantique" is another version of the tune found in "Plains of Time" and "People Imprisoned By Destiny" is arguably the saddest and most moving song in the entire Game Music Genre.Disc three picks things up again and has some of my favorite pieces on the soundtrack. "Garden of God" is just awesome. It has a very New Age-type feel to it. Follow this up with other tracks like "Star-Stealing Girl" and "Dreamwatch Of Time" and you're probably thinking that things just can't get much better. But, just like any good composer, Mitsuda saves the best for last. While many of the reviewers here have highlighted "Radical Dreamers" as a stand-out vocal piece, I'm actually more partial to "Life~Far Away Promise." There's just something about that mourning woodwind that "sings" the chorus (if you will) that just gets to me. Also, as far as video game music goes, I've always preferred instrumental music to vocal tracks. With that being said, both of the songs do an excellent rendition of the main themes found in this soundtrack and I'm sure that most of Mitsuda's fans will enjoy both of them.There's really nothing else I can say that others haven't said already. I would recommend this soundtrack whether or not you're into game music, especially if you're into instrumental music of any kind. Yasunori just plays with so many styles and he does all of them beautifully. Virtually everyone will be able to find something of value in this three disc collection and, as others have mentioned,it is both a masterpiece and a classic.

