product/productId: B000NKGYMK
product/title: Alaska Sourdough
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A2E0GB5QZRX2JZ
review/profileName: Linda Pool "cookbookaholic"
review/helpfulness: 5/6
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1244851200
review/summary: A Bit of Heaven
review/text: I got this book because of all the interesting stories and sourdough tidbits that it contained. The stories were informative, a fascinating look at history, and most of all - FUN! Then, because she made it sound so easy and delectable - I decided to try making sourdough and see what would happen. I had to go back and forth in the book a little to make sure I was doing everything correctly - the Sourdough Hints in the back were very helpful. Well, it's been a week since I mixed up the starter. The sourdough smelled "sour cream sour" and it looked OK. (I was glad not to see little black fungus or other such nasties growing on the surface like the last sourdough I tried to make 20 years ago). So I made the Quick Sourdough Bread today. I figured that was a good place to start since I didn't want to take time for the 2 risings that the regular Sourdough Bread recipe called for. It rose nicely in the pan. It smelled good. But I did take it out of the oven 10 minutes early, because it was a deep golden brown and I was afraid it would be a rock-hard loaf if I waited the full 45 minutes. I brushed butter on the crust to soften it a little (still paranoid about the possible hard crust) and waited for it to cool. I sliced it. My husband and I had one slice. Then we had another. (And, yes, then we had one more with black cherry jam!) Oh My Goodness!! I haven't had bread that tasted that good in a LONG time!! My husband put it this way, "It is a slice of Heaven!". I agreed wholeheartedly - better than candy, cake or cookies! So take it from a person who has hundreds of cook books and probably thousands of recipes and has cooked all sorts of bread for the last 30+ years - this book is worth getting. It made the best bread we have ever eaten and now I can't wait to try some of the other recipes in the book. Four thumbs up.

