product/productId: B000NKGYMK
product/title: Alaska Sourdough
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A258YNWJW2264M
review/profileName: Tessa F. Briggs "Tessa B"
review/helpfulness: 8/14
review/score: 3.0
review/time: 1241827200
review/summary: Not your quick refrence cookbook
review/text: After having a chance to read through the book I am not sure I would have bothered purchasing it in a store. The "sourdough lore" is very interesting but in order to make the book seem more "authentically old" the author has hand-written each and every page. That's right, the only thing typed in this book is the copyright info. Her handwriting is more or less legible but it's much more difficult to read at a glance and the frequent misspellings bother me. The instructions also assume that you already know how to do a lot of things. For example, on the recipe for doughnuts it says to mix the ingredients, allow to rise, and the deep fry the cut doughnuts. I have to cut doughnuts? Is there anything I do to them first? I don't know, because none of that is included in the recipe. Also, there is no master index.Finally, all the recipes I have gone through are scaled to make massive portions. There is no eating for two out of this cookbook and you can't cut them down because they call for an odd number of eggs. Example - the pancake recipe will make about 15-20 medium sized pancakes (and calls for two cups of sourdough starter - not workable for people who don't have huge batches of starter) yet calls for only 1 egg.UPDATE: After working with this cookbook more, I wish I could have given it a lower review. It's not really a cookbook as there are probably only about 5 unique recipes. Everything else is a VARIATION that she calls a new recipe. And some of her suggestions are just plain gross. Corned beef and Worcestershire pancakes? Cottage cheese and smoked fish pancake roll ups? Ick! There are about 10,000 things she recommends doing with waffles but these are not unique recipes - these are tips, hints, and VARIATIONS. Cover waffles with ice cream, meringue, pancakes, ham, make them a sandwich, cook them with curry and dip them in fish paste. YUCKO!

