product/productId: B000NKGYMK
product/title: Alaska Sourdough
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A7IA8CTTSQ7A4
review/profileName: Kenneth Montgomery
review/helpfulness: 3/5
review/score: 3.0
review/time: 1290470400
review/summary: Sourdough...Alaska style
review/text: Frankly, "Alaska Sourdough" will not suit everyone's tastes. Don't get me wrong, "Alaska Sourdough" is as much interesting from an historical standpoint as it is for the unique recipes derived from "on the trail" sourdoughs who purportedly derived these concoctions over many, many years of preserving their stock of sourdough. One gets the feeling that sourdough was the lifeblood--the sustaining force--that kept many of Alaska's intrepid miners and inevitable shysters alive when all other earthly endeavors and pleasures had evaporated.The unique uses for sourdough (makes a wonderful glue, did you know?) keeps the book moving forward, and the recipes can be a bit bizarre, especially the numerous uses of mixing clams in pancake and muffin recipes. If you're looking for more practical recipes, Ruth Allman includes those as well in what appears to be a handwritten book, simulating the feel of recipes jotted down on note cards or loose pieces of paper. The section on waffles and pancakes I found to be very useful; however, the section on creating basic sourdough bread seemed to be laborious compared to the many no-knead methods other sourdough experts espouse. A good sourdough starter is its own leavening agent, creating a dough that will rise on its own. Allman's recipes frequently encourage the use of baking soda, baking powder, and even commercial yeast to speed up the respective recipe processes. This concept might not set too well with traditional sourdough bakers."Alaska Sourdough" does not take too long to peruse. After doing so, I did a little research on Ruth Allman and her husband and found their influence to be substantial in the Juneau, Alaska community in the early 20th Century. I would encourage anyone who found the historical aspect of "Alaska Sourdough" to be compelling to look into the House of Wickersham and Ruth Allman's interesting involvement in its development and perpetuation.

