product/productId: B000ENKHPG
product/title: Sylvania 6620LDG 20-Inch Flat Panel LCD TV with Built in DVD player
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A1XSEXEQBWMH3M
review/profileName: EquiPro
review/helpfulness: 4/7
review/score: 2.0
review/time: 1173744000
review/summary: Good TV for the price - MORONIC remote
review/text: I purchased my 6620LDG, like other reviewers, to replace my old kitchen TV. I really wanted an LCD with a built-in DVD player. While I like the TV just fine, the remote is another story. I actually wrote to the manufacturer about the remote and gave them quite an earful. Included in my e.mail was the following:"While I find the overall TV to be good, I am appalled at thequality and functionality of the remote that operates and comes withthat particular model. I simply can't believe that a name brand likeSylvania would provide such a poorly designed remote to accompany ahigher-end TV.""...this remote is very uncomfortableto hold and operate. It is as if your designers made no accommodationsfor how people hold remotes, and what makes them comfortable.""Seriously. I cantt imagine who designed the actual size and shape of that remote or which idiot approved it's public distribution, but the entire lot of them need to find other professions if they think that this remote is at all acceptable.""A remote should be, at the very least,functional and comfortable enough to go unnoticed, dont you think???? Aside from the horrid shape, size and weight of the remote, this remote has an absolutely terrible layout and lacks some of the most basic buttons that come with the cheapest of remotes. I was shocked and horrified to realize that this hideous remote had no "last channel" button. Are your designers living in the 70s or do they just have their heads up their butts?""I havent had a TV remote in my hand without a last channel button in at LEAST 20 years. Since the remote is so huge, how could it not have one of the most traditional buttons on it? I consider the very lowest and feature-less remotes to be those in hotel rooms. They look like top-of-the-line models when compared to this piece of crap.On top of not having the basic buttons, and amongst other issues, the remote is frustrating because: 1. The text is illegible, 2. The buttons are laid out in a way that doesnt make sense and 3. When you channel surf, the remote is so slow to change the channel that you want to throw it on the floor and stomp on it. In fact, if I can find a universal remote that works with this TV; I intend to do just that. Of course, to add insult to injury, it states clearly in your owners manual that 'We do not recommend the use ofuniversal remote controls. Not all of the functions may be controlledwith a universal remote control.' Great, so you provide a bottom of thebarrel remote with your TV, but then dont allow your customers to get adecent remote by making your TV uncooperative with them. This is thefirst time that I have encountered this too, BTW."Finally:"I hope that you promptly change the remote that comes with the 6620LDG LCD TV/DVD combo TV. I expect that you will experience many returns of this product due to the crappy remote that comes with it."THIS was their entire response:"Thank you for taking the time to express your concerns regarding our product. Your comments and opinions are important to us. Please understand that it is our objective to provide the best possible product. We hope you accept our apologies for the inconvenience you have experienced with our product."I am on the verge of taking this back because of the remote.

