product/productId: 0789480662
product/title: Eyewitness Travel Guide to Europe
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A281NPSIMI1C2R
review/profileName: Rebecca of Amazon "The Rebecca Review"
review/helpfulness: 19/19
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1023235200
review/summary: The Major Sights in Twenty Countries - Amazing!
review/text: Yes, this is one heavy book. It is more than likely not a guide you want to carry around with you unless you intend to lose a few pounds from the extra weight in your backpack. Otherwise, it is quite a great guide for deciding where you want to take your next vacation in Europe. It is filled with color photography, illustrations and details you wil enjoy reading. It is graphically exciting and visually pleasing. Of all the guides I've seen, the Eyewitness Travel Guides are sheer brillance.On the inside cover there is a map of Europe and then the pages are color coded so you can find the following countries: Great Britian, Ireland, France, Belgium & Luxembourge, The Netherlands, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland.So, if you wanted to find the information on France, you just turn the book sideways and look for the yellow markings on the pages. Viola, you are there. If you are dreaming about visiting the Eiffel Tower, the Louvre or want to go see the Hall of Mirrors at the Chateau de Versailles, may I say...they are worth a plane ticket to France. Finding a bottle of Huile D' Olive in the South of France is also something you won't soon forget.There is also a guide to Europe's Rail Network and the Index is perfect.After you look through the main spots to visit in each country, there is a section filled with practical information: Visa Requirements and customs, tourist information, personal security issues, climate, banking, communications, directory for embassies, travel information like car rental and buses, etc. Then there is a shopping and entertainment. So where do you want to stay? There is a guide giving the hotel ratings and it is divided up by the areas you might enjoy visiting. Then, there is a guide to places to eat. While finding a restaurant just by exploring can be exciting, there is something to be said for a guide. Unless of course you happen to be traveling with someone who knows the country and I can imagine that is the best way to travel. Is there a lonely Frenchman out there who wants to show me Paris? SighJust kidding, but hey, a fantasy is a fantasy.So, think of this guide as an overview and then you can select an Eyewitness Travel Guide for the specific countries of interest. They are all excellent although on a first trip to Europe, I'd advice a guided tour so you can enjoy your trip instead of worrying about language barriers, etc.If you go to Paris, take a tour because I would not drive there if you paid me a million bucks! The highways in Germany are also equally terrifying. Everyone is in such a hurry to get to nowhere. If you want to enjoy your vacation without as many hassles, a tour might be the way to go. There is nothing quite like being guided through the most gorgeous cities in Europe.This guide is just the start to many adventures.~The Rebecca Review

