product/productId: 0789480662
product/title: Eyewitness Travel Guide to Europe
product/price: unknown
review/userId: AT9YSY20RJUDX
review/profileName: M. A. ZAIDI "Ali Zaidi"
review/helpfulness: 11/13
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1033689600
review/summary: Helpful guide on tours through Europe
review/text: I recently took a backpack trip through Europe, which lasted close to a month; before heading out there I went through a few guidebooks and at that moment this one appealed the most. I cannot say if it was the presentation with the colored photographs; maps of the cities with visitor information or that I was just to plain sick of spending time searching for a guide book to take me though my journey. Nonetheless I am quite pleased that I took this guide with me. I had planned initially to visit a friend in Netherlands and spend some time scrolling through the cities; I left my guide there to my host; but off and on I would reference the book with places I visited; I must admit that this book covered all the places. Now of course I personally feel the best way to visit a place is to have some one show you around as like any other travel guide will not detail the places where the locals would head over to; like the bars, restraunts and night clubs. My visit from here lead me to Paris; it hit me with all its charm and glamour; here too I was fortunate to be taken around by friends. The real use of the guide came when I went on a solo journey to Belgium Austria and Italy. I found this guide an immense source of information. On my way to the city mostly by trains; I found the chance to orient myself and somewhat have a time frame as to how long I would stay in each city. I found that even though the book has information about hotels and hostels but at the train station's Hotel Guides; I was always able to get better deals. Pretty much I carried this heavy 800 pages book with me where ever I went.Even though this book provides immense information I would highly recommend getting additional reference books on cities, which are known, for immense sightseeing and historical attractions. One such place where the guide fell short was Florence; even tough it has considerable information and provides all the most popular sites. It literally will take a 1000 pages to detail all the places to visit; as a comparison there are over 78 places to visit which have historical importance but the book has listed only about the best 14 of them; well visiting all the places would take a few weeks of stay in comparison to a typical 3-4 days that tourists generally spend; which is sufficient time to visit the places listed in the book. Another important place not mentioned in this test was the "Museum of Arsenal" in Vienna; here on display is the car in which duke Ferdinand traveled with in Sarajevo.On the whole this covers only the most western countries of Europe and leaves a lot of East European countries and Turkey as well.

