product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A2BVZU0E84E28
review/profileName: G.K.Shriram
review/helpfulness: 0/0
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1074988800
review/summary: Enchanting Musical Genius
review/text: If there is a music album which almost reaches absoulete perfection this must be it. Every human emotion is mirrored through this unbeleivable three disc set which takes you on a roller coaster ride through the fascinating world of chrono cross.It starts with the soulful enchanting but powerful 'Scars of Time' which seamlesly fuses fast paced mayhem with soul stirring emotions and ends with one of the greatest musical accomplishments of any genre during any time the magnificent &quot;Radical Dreamers Unstolen Jewel&quot;. One word to decribe this song would be enchantment. It transports you to another world a world without sorrow or memory and is everything it should be. The song alone is worth the price of this CD.Amid these two masterpieces are more beautiful gems strewn across this three disc marvel. Magical dreamers is music with true feeling to back it up and another world displays superbly the magic of the acoustic guitar. Even the atmoshperic music is top notch with subtle changes in flavour here and there which entice and charm you.The tunes vary from those depicting bravery and sacrifice like 'Dragon Rider' to those depicting strife and internal grief like 'People imprisoned by destiny'.The wide spectrum of instruments and musical genres is also excellent as it keeps your attention span for the entire three discs.I think this is how music was meant to be. Every note in this album is emotionally charged and there are very few things to forget in this album. If you are looking for good music then chono cross will gve you something which you will never forget and something you will treasure for the rest of your life. I think Yasunori Mitsuda will soon become the premier composer of our time.

