product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A9AX1D31T7J1S
review/profileName: Zachary Gochenour
review/helpfulness: 34/35
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1052784000
review/summary: Masterpiece from a Virtuoso Composer
review/text: Yasunori Mitsuda must be one of the greatest musical virtuosos of our time, and Chrono Cross is his most impressive achievement to date. This Japanese composer - who also wrote the music for Chrono Trigger, Xenogears, and Xenosaga - is a master at using several styles of music to define his unique work: celtic, arabian, classical, neoclassical, and traditional japanese influences are all recognizable and expertly crafted into this work. Rather than limit himself to a narrow selection of instruments and styles, Mitsuda combines these traditional styles and adds his own exciting flavor to the mix. The mixture will capture your ear starting at the beginning.Almost all the tracks will be familiar to those who have played Chrono Cross (an excellent game), and many are reminiscent of the Chrono Trigger soundtrack. These recognizable themes are like mom's apple pie to gamers: they should remind you of long, enjoyable hours and memorable moments from your gameplay experience. Divorced from the video game, the music may not have the nostalgic effects, but it stands alone as a powerhouse of composing talent and a monumental achievement in modern music.The Chrono Cross OST is divided into 3 discs entitled Cause, Unveiling, and Change: each building on the theme of temporal change and disturbance. The best way to listen to this album is from start to finish without interruption; this is the only way you can truly appreciate how the music develops. All the tracks together last slightly longer than three hours, but it will be well worth your investment of time and money. Listening to Mitsuda's work stimulates the imagination and keeps the mind involved, whether it be through exciting, active tracks or ambient, meditative ones.Most of the songs are calm and relaxing, as they are intended to double as background music, but many are sure to get your blood pumping. Some of the best tracks are Time's Grasslands, Dream on a Shore Bordering Another World, Chronomantic, Predicament, Radical Dreamers, and one vocal track, sung in Japanese, that is a beautiful complement to the instrumental work. Certainly do not listen exclusively to these tracks, though, because you would miss the musical experience. After you finish the soundtrack, you will want to start it over and listen again.Mitsuda takes synthetic and game music to a new level. He is the most innovative composer currently working today, and this soundtrack is a collection of some of his most impressive and inspiring work. The Chrono Cross OST is a must have for music and game lovers alike.

