product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A1QA8K3LD9K892
review/profileName: Chris Adamson "invalidname"
review/helpfulness: 17/19
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 980035200
review/summary: Best game soundtrack in my collection
review/text: Basic info: Music composed arranged and produced by Yasunori Mitsuda. 3-disc set. Disc 1: 69:40 (29 tracks). Disc 2: 59:50 (26 tracks). Disc 3: 53:21 (16 tracks). Most packaging is in Japanese, but you can get the English track list by playing the CD in an internet-connected computer with a CDDB-compatible audio player, like Apple's &quot;iTunes&quot;.I'd heard this was a wonderful soundtrack and bought it at an anime convention before I'd even played the game. If only all my impulse purchases went so well. I knew Mitsuda's style from the &quot;Xenogears&quot; soundtrack, but &quot;Chrono Cross&quot; blew me away.Whereas so many PlayStation game soundtracks are dominated by marches (Brave Fencer Musashiden), or synthesized brass and ominous church-bells (Final Fantasy), Chrono Cross' music offers string quartets, acoustic guitar, bouzouki and a decidedly Celtic feel, with the horns and drums only coming out for the occasional battle theme or Dramatic Moment. Not only does the music fit the exploratory and communicative tasks that it commonly underscores in the game, but it also holds up better for casual listening. This, potentially, is game music for people who don't know or don't like game music. Disc 1 in particular alternates betweens moods of gentleness and uneasy mystery.Disc 3's &quot;Radical Dreamers&quot;, sung by Noriko Mitose, upholds Squaresoft's recent tradition of an end-of-game pop song that is presaged by earlier tracks in the score, and fits in nicely as a closer to the soundtrack, though it probably doesn't stand out enough to show up on internet anime radio stations like Final Fantasy VIII's &quot;Eyes On Me&quot; does.A 3-disc import doesn't come cheap, but if you are at all interested in Chrono Cross and its music, I don't think you'll be disappointed with this soundtrack.

