product/productId: B002BNZ2XE
product/title: Amazon.com: Moving Target (1988): Jason Bateman, John Glover, Jack Wagner, Chynna Phillips: Amazon Instant Video
product/price: 0.00
review/userId: A2582KMXLK2P06
review/profileName: B. E Jackson
review/helpfulness: 2/3
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1251676800
review/summary: cheesy, very dated, and well... the beginning of a great career
review/text: I don't know exactly when Jason Bateman started his career, but after watching Arrested Development the last several years (reruns of course) I wanted to tune into Moving Target to find out what he looked like as a teenager. WOW, haha. He looks pretty much the same as he does now, except he's much smaller, and I THINK I remember Jason Bateman being somewhat of a chick magnet for all the teenage girls out there back in the late 80's.Anyway, while I didn't expect Arrested Development-type quality while watching Moving Target (or a comedy for that matter) I can't say this movie does a whole lot of things differently from all the other similar "run from bad guys- shoot bad guys" movies that are out there.The only difference in this film compared to the many similar ones from the same time period is that Bateman plays a teenage boy in this movie as the main character, and he has to run from the bad guy that supposedly has connections to the mob and forces Bateman's parents to change their names and where they live. Why didn't the parents tell Bateman about any of this and instead waited for him to return home from summer camp to find out his parents no longer lived there, so Bateman's character has to be worried sick and constantly confused? I have no idea. Maybe a case of bad parenting. Actually I think it's because Bateman chose to skip summer camp and he ran away early to return home. Maybe the parents WERE planning to tell him when he arrived home.Anyway, it's somewhat cheesy as far as the acting is concerned, but because it's an older film there's something somewhat appealing about the occasional sloppy writing and acting skills. I liked it. Bateman went on to much much MUCH better things (such as Arrested Development) but this movie ain't bad for what it is.

