product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A3GXD7RZLS8USP
review/profileName: D. Keller "techie and tinkerer"
review/helpfulness: 8/8
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1163116800
review/summary: Good, and not just for game music
review/text: "I've never played the game, but I've watched it." How many times have you heard that phrase? That was the case for me and Chrono Cross and as a result I had the pleasure of concentrating more on the story and, best of all, the music. Yasunori Mitsuda has a knack for setting the emotional tone of a scene with his music: even on older games such as Chrono Trigger, he demonstrated that video game music can be more than just a repetitive or monotonous theme; rather it can be an entire score. In this case, three CDs worth of a score.Mitsuda and other Japanese composers do something incredibly ambitious with scores like these: writing enough music to fill games that gamers may spend 50 or more hours playing. Yes, even this music can get monotonous at times (RPG gamers will know what I mean by "battle music"), but thankfully, you don't have to listen to the music in that fashion with this soundtrack.My favorite tracks are, of course, the couple that incorporate actual acoustic instruments. The synthesized tracks, however, are still some of the best that I've heard from a video game score. More specifically, the guitar tracks are impressive. The instrumentalists went to the trouble of adding subtle touches like the noise of fingers sliding over steel or nylon strings which is convincing enough at times to make you do an aural double-take.The style is varied, but you can liken it to a bit Celtic, a bit Renaissance, and a bit modern. What really matters is that it sounds good and it's fun to listen to.It's difficult for me to give this or any other game soundtrack five stars when compared to other music selections. I'll just say my 5 star rating is within the context of video game scores - you'll be hard pressed to find a better one. In the context of all music, however, I'd give this a 4 or 4.5, not because of the composer but because of the limitations of the genre. This music needs to be looped and it needs to fit in a small amount of computer memory and as a result will suffer compared to a full orchestral score for an opera or movie. The music still stands on its own and I have no problems recommending this to music lovers in general.

