product/productId: 0373271816
product/title: By Honor Bound (The Lassiter Law) (Silhouette Intimate Moments)
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A1TCDS9S2NIVPB
review/profileName: C. Penn "WordWeaving"
review/helpfulness: 6/6
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1007510400
review/summary: Highly recommended
review/text: Security specialist Micah Lassiter finds himself in an ethical quandary when wealthy businessman Alan Street hires him to protect his daughter, and Micah quickly finds his heart becoming involved. Allen owns one of the most successful software companies in the world, which now has made him the target of threats. The man sending threatening letters is obviously brilliant, unbalanced and dangerous. Concerned for his daughter, Alan wants someone to keep an eye on Prudence night and day to ensure her safety. But Micah must protect Prudence without her knowledge. She has struggled hard to establish her independence from her father and won't welcome his intrusion now, however well meaning.Micah moves into the apartment across the hall from Prudence, using his proximity to arrange quiet dinners and intimate moments. By necessity, Prudence believes he's courting her, and is confused by his mixed signal when he kisses her on one day and then emotionally distances himself the next. Micah is equally confused by his reactions, knowing that emotional involvement can endanger her safety. Prudence becomes the cause of some real soul searching, as their relationship takes a path he didn't expect. As danger escalates, Micah finds not just her life in danger, but his heart. Further, she won't be tolerant when she finds out her father hired him.Ruth Langan deftly combines danger and romance in BY HONOR BOUND. Langan has a gift for creating wonderful characters. The direct confrontation of the ethical issues provides striking characterizations with believable dilemmas. Her secondary characters likewise sparkle, from the Lassiter family to the meddlesome sisters that live in the same apartment building as Alan and Prudence. Unexpectedly delightful, BY HONOR BOUND comes highly recommended.

