product/productId: 0806525428
product/title: The New Conspiracy Reader: From Planet X to the War on Terrorism-What You Really Don't Know
product/price: unknown
review/userId: AR3VTNXYLZRYI
review/profileName: hanyi ishtouk
review/helpfulness: 3/4
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1209340800
review/summary: Smartly done
review/text: Due to the time-lag up to the present (5-9 years after the original publication) it needs to be pointed out that some of the essays may have lost shreds from their novelty; while others, like Al Hidell's charting out the EuroAtlantic grand chessplayers' ulterior geostrategical motives (among them g.o.d.= guns, oil/pipelines, drugs) leading up to the violent breakup of Yugoslavia and to the birth of their latest stepchild, say, in the form of Kosovo, are timelier than ever. Just as Israeli connections (far from being the whole picture) to the 9-11 inside job (& the rest), in another offering from the same author/co-editor, cannot be repeated often enough either.Aside from the articles already referred to in the above editorial review, further titles are as follows:Joan d'Arc: Giordano Bruno: 16th-century ufologist?; The Aviary and the Eschaton: an interview with 'Chicken Little'; Marcel Vogel and the secret of the fifth force; w. Frank Berube: Declaring war on the human spirit: the media spectacle vs. the collective psyche. (Sidebar: Worthwhile to note at this juncture that the historical personage Jeanne d'Arc, whose name the contributing author/co-editor borrowed as her nom de guerre, may not have been burnt alive but lived to the age of 57 as Margarita d'Champdiver, daughter of king Charles VI and his mistress Odetta d'Champdiver. See in David McGowan's "Programmed to Kill. The Politics of Serial Murder" (2004, p. 344 fn. 50) citing a Pravda report dated 01/27/2004.)Frank Berube: The Third Reich of Dreams: Charlotte Beradt's "Diaries of the Night". Scott Corrales: Unusual ufo cults examined; Chupacabras: a study in darkness; Conspiracy theories in history. Andy Lloyd: Sol B: the messianic star?; Occult symbolism of Nibiru, the planet of the cross(x)ing. Alan Cantwell Jr.: Blaming gays, blacks, and chimps for AIDS; Anthrax bioterrorism and the insanity of biological warfare. Kathy Kasten: Cruisin' with the spooks: aboard the maiden voyage of a different kind of spy ship. Alexandra Bruce: Reptoid invasion. Jorge Martin: Ufos and aliens in the Caribbean: what is the US Navy hiding in Vieques, Puerto Rico?. Acharya S.: Jesus the Globetrotter: the myth of the mysterious 'lost years'. William Patrick Bourne: The Chinese 'guest star' of 1054 A.D. and Earth catastrophism. Brian Tuohy: The NFL: professional fantasy football?. Steven Ferry: Psychiatry and psychology: reexamining a sacred cow; Robert Guffey: Heaven's Gate, Columbine, the Unabomber, and other atrocities; etc.These concise yet incisive and highly readable papers are arranged under the rubrics 'hidden history', 'ufos and supernatural phenomena', 'psychological warfare', 'cults and secret societies', 'planet x' (personally we find this subject the least interesting), 'biological and chemical warfare', 'the big picture' (Big Brother's control grid), 'secret and suppressed science', 'mind control/thought control'. Contrary to the product description the present compilation counts not 368 but 438 pages, with detailed index enclosed.

