product/productId: B000068VBK
product/title: Kelly Club Pet Parade
product/price: 2.95
review/userId: A33LFS8AS5FBHQ
review/profileName: C. Johnson
review/helpfulness: 0/0
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1246147200
review/summary: Daughter LOVES this game!
review/text: Lately, my 4 year old daughter has been obsessed with computer games. I'm buying more games on CDs to decrease her exposure to the internet. She loves animals so I figured this would at least be mildly interesting. That turned out to be an understatement. She fell in love with it instantly.There are four characters in the game and each has an animal friend. To play the game, you have to prepare each character and their animal for a pet parade by teaching the animal a trick, picking out clothes for the character, and designing a float for each pair. After each pair and their float is ready for the parade, you have to organize the parade and add special effects. Then, you start the parade and the program plays out the parade that you designed. The parade is actually pretty brief, but it can be played over and over as many times as you like.The game can be quickly mastered by most children but has enough variety to encourage them to go back to repeat the tasks many times. There are a variety of clothing choices and float options. Even though it seems repetitious to me, my daughter doesn't seem to mind it - and she's very advanced with computer use. I've also noticed that when she goes back over and over to play the games where she teaches the animals their tricks for a specific parade, the game increases in difficulty so it's not monotonous. There are also several options for printables, including a cute friendship bracelet with your child's name on it.This game certainly would not qualify as educational, although it does build good computer skills and hand/eye coordination. Overall, I would say it's just good, clean fun.I gave this four stars because sometimes the program seems a little slow and there is a delay between screen changes. Also, you can't play the game without the CD in the disk drive, even after fully loading the game on the computer. This is a negative to me because for most kids, you would have to assist them with starting the game. However, my 4 year old has pretty much mastered inserting the CD, closing the drive drawer, and clicking on the program icon. I'm just not totally comfortable with her doing it when I'm not there. The last thing I need is to have a broken CD jammed in my computer...

