product/productId: 0471192627
product/title: A Dose of Sanity: Mind, Medicine, and Misdiagnosis
product/price: 30.00
review/userId: unknown
review/profileName: unknown
review/helpfulness: 12/13
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 893203200
review/summary: Fascinating and Terrifying
review/text: Dr. Walker's book is a stern indictment of the contemporary medical profession and the mental health field in particular. He charges the majority of psychiatrists of ignoring the true needs of their patients and instead practicing and arbitrary pseudo-science of labeling. They seem to have given up on the idea (fundamental to the philosophy of science)that all events have a cause and that to understand something we must understand the process of cause and effect that brought it into being. Most modern psychiatrists are not interested in finding out what is wrong through careful methodology. They are divided into two camps. The psychoanalytic types deny a medical cause for abnormal feelings and behaviour altogether (however, they still want the prestige that comes with being a medical doctor!). They look everything from a bad childhood to alien abductions to explain such things as psychosis and manic depression, even though no scientific study has ever proven the theories on which their claims are based. The next group, the standard issue biopsychiatrists are a little more up to date. They would admit the obvious scientific truth that someone who hears voices or is immobilized by a deep depression is psysically ill. However, they drop the ball as well. Most biologically based psychiatrists give very vague answers about the causes of mental illness, and rely on a few biological treatments which are tried on the patient almost randomly until one seems to &quot;work&quot;. For instance, a depressed person will be given one antidepressant drug after another without the doctor even stopping to consider that the deprssion may result from anemia, a thyroid imbalance, poor nutrition or a host of other causes. Many psyciatric patients today are not even given a blood test, an EEG or any other genuine medical test before traetment is prescribed. Walker points out that until people are given a battery of tests, we will never really know what is wrong with them. Prozac or tranquilizers may make the! m feel better temporatily, but they could be literally dying. He also attacks the concepts of hypochodndria and facetious disorder. For the most part, he argues, these are destructive labels used to protect doctors and stigmatized patients (&quot;if I can't figure out what is wrong with you then it is all in you're head and/or you are just making it up&quot;) While I don't agree with all his points (for instance, his extreme anti-prozac position) I must say that this book is must reading for anyone in need of mental health care.

