product/productId: 0826414346
product/title: Dr. Seuss: American Icon
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A2F6NONFUDB6UK
review/profileName: Malvin
review/helpfulness: 2/2
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1127174400
review/summary: One of America's greatest creative talents
review/text: "Dr. Seuss: American Icon" by Philip Nel is a thoughtful deconstruction of the life and work of Theodore Geisel (aka Dr. Seuss). In this thoughtful book, Mr. Nel deepens our appreciation for Seuss as a distinctively American poet, artist and educator. The author demonstrates Seuss' wide ranging influence and argues for his rightful place among the most important cultural figures of the 20th century.An English professor at Kansas State University, Mr. Nel uses his historic knowledge to discuss how Seuss' text belongs to a tradition of great nonsense writers. Mr. Nel states that Seuss' carefully-constructed absurdist tales encourage children to challenge the status quo by gently skewering the grown-up world; elsewhere, he uses charts to show how Seuss effectively used meter and rhyme to complement his intentionally ridiculous plots and create masterful stories that have stood up well to the test of time.Mr. Nel recounts Seuss' early career as advertising illustrator and political cartoonist to help us better understand the influences that shaped his classic children's work. As an artist, Mr. Nel suggests that the term "energetic cartoon surrealism" appropriately describes Seuss' creative synthesis of cubism, art nouveau, surrealism and other styles. While Seuss' influence can be detected in modern rap music, children's books, political cartoons and more, Mr. Nel contends that Seuss would not have been happy about the manner in which his works have been posthumously marketed, opining that the "Disneyification" or simplification of Seuss' stories for marketable purposes "threatens to make 'Seuss' synomynous with the ambiguous power of global capitalism". Such commercialism would appear to collide with Seuss' desire to develop critical thinking among young people and to help us all imagine a better world.I highly recommend this book for everyone interested in gaining greater insight and perspective into one of America's greatest creative talents.

