product/productId: 0471192627
product/title: A Dose of Sanity: Mind, Medicine, and Misdiagnosis
product/price: 30.00
review/userId: unknown
review/profileName: unknown
review/helpfulness: 9/11
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 983059200
review/summary: Informative, but left me wanting more
review/text: I was very impressed with A Dose of Sanity because so many books critical of psychiatry remind me of Breggin which claim that there is something &quot;spiritual&quot; missing in the patient, and the author ignores the bioligical problems inherent in the behavioral or mood disorder.However, I as I made my way through the book I was concerned that Dr. Walker was not going to address what to do if you have been diagnosed with a serious mood disorder, but were unable to find a physical cause (like a boy that was ADHD but had cardiac problems). I was right. He never said what to do if you have been diagnosed with manic depression (or any of the other hard to treat mood disorders). He did not address lithium or other non-antidepressant therapies for mood disorders. I agree that these treatments are probably only treating the symptoms of some underlying brain dysfunction that science has not yet named, but what does the patient do until science has figured this out? Remain psychotic? Lithium therapy may be some band-aid solution for a cellular dysfunction of our brain matter, but is a patient supposed to discontinue this medication because science can only offer this treatment to help the symptoms of the disorder? I wish Walker had offered an opinion and information on this issue.Also, along the same line, he didn't say what patients should do once they had gone through exstensive medical testing to determine their problem and nothing physically wrong was found. (Nevermind the fact that he did't give specific tests to ask for - just blood and urinalysis in addition to what else?) If you know that you don't suffer from pin worms, syphillis, typhus, cardiac problems or whatever else, but your symptoms only seem to match typical manic symptoms that only lithium helps, should you throw in the towel and accept the psychotropic medication?I do think that Dr. Walker is truly concerned about patients who have fallen victim to DSM &quot;diagnosis&quot;, and this book could be very helpful for a patient who has received psychiatric care, but did not have a full medical work-up before taking psychotropic medications. I only wish this book had touched on the issues that I mentioned above.Finally, the most important message of this book is never stop learning about what you have been told your disorder is, and never take the word of your doctor as law. As Walker says himself, there is no way that one doctor can know everthing about medicine.

