product/productId: B000058A83
product/title: Dance Dance Revolution Third Mix
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A1H57FVWRTMNIQ
review/profileName: Jade Phoenix
review/helpfulness: 9/10
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1004227200
review/summary: This music is my addiction
review/text: What can I say? I spend an average of at least fifteen dollars a week playing this game for many reasons. Not only do I get a complete workout, the music just rawks my sawks. That's why I decided I had to throw in my two cents about this CD.I ordered this CD like, a few days ago. I can't wait to get it. This CD is one you can listen to for hours at a time, while never getting tired of the songs. I'm hooked on Dam Dariram and Upside Down [they're also fun to dance to at the arcade], while my friend is hooked to Butterfly, Boom Boom Dollar, and La Senorita. The music... is amazing. This is like, a worthwhile buy for anyone who likes to dance.I've been playing the DDR 3rd Mix Arcade Game for nearly three weeks now, and I haven't gotten tired of the music at all. I'm addicted. The game's fun, but the music's better!I am, as many may know, a rock fan. A lot of people wonder how I ever got into this kind of music, it doesn't fit my 'personality'. Just one listen of this CD will prove you otherwise, it is worth hearing for anyone. Anyone, I bet you, will find something on the CD worth liking.I loved 'So Many Men' because it has this slow beat that I can have fun with. Scott loves 'Butterfly Upswing Mix' because not only does it give you a good workout [on the arcade game], the song is addictive, and you can even sing along, too! 'La Senorita' has that Latin beat that gets your hips moving, and Paranoia infuses your entire body with energy, you have to wonder how can you NOT dance to it.All in all, I HIGHLY recommend this CD to anyone who knows their music, and loves to add a special CD to their collection. I know, for a fact, that this CD will not be leaving my CD player for at least six months... at least.

