product/productId: B0001XARZ4
product/title: Letters From Home
product/price: 11.99
review/userId: A3VDGERHHLOQVQ
review/profileName: Crabby Apple Mick Lee
review/helpfulness: 4/4
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1083283200
review/summary: WHAT GREAT NATIONS AND COUNTRY MUSIC IS MADE OF
review/text: Thematically, Letters From Home is similar to Tracy Lawrence's Strong. Both focus on the importance of family, home, and life as it is lived on the human scale over against the larger concerns of the outside world. Neither one claims that the affairs of the world "don't amount up to a hill of beans compared to you and me, baby"; but they do remind in this post-911 world that family and home are what it's all about.Unlike Lawrence, Montgomery is more treasured as "the voice". Vocally, he is more a baritone than a tenor and is more soothing to the ears-a little more "western" and "cowboy" sometimes. Montgomery also is more known for some plainly sentimental songs in the past such as "I Love the Way You Love Me" and "I Can Love You Like That". He has a special attraction, many woman claim, because he can sing tenderly and tug at the heartstrings. This can backfire on any artist because if he does this too often he will soon not be taken seriously. And Montgomery has teetered close to the edge several times in his career.Lawrence's Strong dealt with the refuge of family and home and the dangers that could take it all away. Montgomery chooses to focus more on the human ties that make up this sanctuary.The CD begins with a particularly "southern" interest in "Good Ground". The song runs at a fair clip in country rock fashion. One can wonder at the value of a bunch of dirt beyond what it can do for crops but the singer isn't talking about agriculture. It is about a sense of "place" and how home nurtures life and is the scene where children and families gather the wealth of experience and affection to live life."Letters From Home" (the first single) is a moderately "walking" tune about the things family members say to soldier children who are in dangerous places far away. Sometimes it is when we are afraid we will lose them we finally say what it is we want them to know. It is simple and suggestive-imagine it is a popular but difficult song to hear if you are a soldier or Marine in Afghanistan or Iraq."That's What I'm Talking About" celebrates to joys of a man and a woman. "Look At Me Now" is an object lesson about "I did everything right but I got it all wrong". The song is open to interpretation; but "you see, all that I've done doesn't matter at all/ it's what I leave here when I'm gone" suggests that the family the singer did not have on the path to success was the "pearl of great price" he foolishly did not grasp."Goes Good With Beer" is a little bit of comic relief and every bit the good-timey country tune it sounds like. A song that champions the pleasure of life in a world of trouble, it surely will be an upcoming popular hit."Cool" runs over the same theme as Kenny Chesney's "There Goes My Life" from the viewpoint of a son who doesn't understand why his dad isn't more "with it". Some may complain that it is just an "anti-abortion" song. It is every bit of that; but it is more about a man who holds to honor and obligation rather than the fashion of the day."It Rocked" is the closest Montgomery gets to an outright rock song. Again, it harks back to the country/rock sound of the 1970's; but it swings. Like "That Changes Everything" that follows it, it is about the personal anchors in life that keep us grounded and make life meaningful."Break This Chain" is about getting away from what gets between us and the ones we love. "Little Devil" seems a little out of place except as a light and fun end to some serious stuff. After all, the mild mannered girl the singer wants to skinny dip with in the Jacuzzi could be just a one-night stand for all we know. No one says it's his wife or girlfriend. And the sly little "this can be our little secret/we don't have to tell no one" is undoubtedly suggestive. But this is country music! We can't all be so solemn and dead serious all the time. Besides, some of the best families come out of an indecent skinny dip.Home. Hearth. Family. Sex. These are things that make a great nation. In this case, they also make a great CD.

