product/productId: B0001XARZ4
product/title: Letters From Home
product/price: 11.99
review/userId: AEQFYOI6YJ83Z
review/profileName: DanD
review/helpfulness: 6/7
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1094860800
review/summary: A good, solid country music album!
review/text: John Michael Montgomery has asserted himself as a radio mainstay in the nineties. Though he got little airplay since then--"The Little Girl" is the only hit I can think of--this album promises to deliver him back into the spotlight. He has left behind the twang of his previous efforts, and has chosen a good selection of substantial, well-written and BELIEVEABLE material.LETTERS begins with "Good Ground," an uptempo number about family and love that continues on most of the other songs. The title track is a gut-wrenching number (admit it, you had a tear in your eye when you first heard it) that indeed stands out, but is not the only good tune on here. "Look At Me Now" is a confessional number about growing older, while "Cool" deals with the consequences faced in life."That's What I'm Talkin About" is a romp that manages to skewer gossipers AND contain suggestive lyrics (a similar vein is followed on "Little Devil"). "Goes Good With Beer" is destined to become a honky-tonk classic, while "Break This Chain" is pretty much it's opposite--the story of a man from a long line of alcoholics praying for the strenght to defeat his curse. "That Changes Everything" shows us the surprise directions life can take, while "It Rocked" lets us know that life's greatest moments and sensations come from the simple things.LETTERS FROM HOME is easily John Michael Montgomery's best album. While Montgomery has situated himself as frontman for radio-friendly music (ironically, big-brother Eddie is doing the same thing for outlaw country), he shows us that he does indeed know what a good country song is about...His voice is neither world-class nor run-of-the-mill, but he uses it for all it's worth, and it's worth a pretty penny. LETTERS FROM HOME will make you cry, make you laugh, make you sing, and even--if you're really in the mood--make you dance. A great album by one of today's best performers.

