product/productId: B0001XARZ4
product/title: Letters From Home
product/price: 11.99
review/userId: A3CPA0XGKNY9ZJ
review/profileName: Timothy Yap "thy4568"
review/helpfulness: 3/3
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1083283200
review/summary: Heartfelt &quot;Letters&quot;
review/text: Prime Cuts: Cool, Letters from Home, That Changes EverythingMusically, the family resemblance between John Michael and brother Eddie of Montgomery Gentry fame runs thin. While Eddie Montgomery is a heel kicking honky tonk troubadour, John Michael is the personification of gentility. While Montgomery Gentry has blasted the speakers of country radio with defiant anthems like "She Couldn't Change Me" and "Hell Yeah," big brother Montgomery sings about roping the moon and covering his significant other with kisses.Not surprisingly, nostalgia, sentimentality and introspection earmarked John Michael's latest album "Letters from Home." In fact, other than a few rollicking honky tonk numbers, most of "Letters from Home" deal with the affairs of the heart. Best of which is the excellent title cut as well as lead off single, "Letters from Home." Riding along some gentle guitar picking and plaintive sounding dobro, Montgomery sings about a G.I. savoring correspondence from his parents and loved ones while being far away from home. An engaging number that has done its share of currying favor with country radio, "Letters from Home" finds Montgomery back into the top 10 terrain after a 4 year hiatus. Less poignant, but equally sentimental is the amicable "Look at Me Now."Ultra cool is Harley Allen and Brice Long's ballad "Cool"--- a cautionary tale of a father warning his rebellious teenager to take stock of his rowdy ways for what goes around comes around. Replete with some fine fiddling, Montgomery's performance on "Cool" is nothing less than stellar--sincere, reflective and entrancing. Though "Cool" first appeared on Montgomery's previous greatest hits collection, it's such a standout that I was glad it got revived. Paternal fidelity is also the theme of the album's opener "Good Ground." Though set at a faster tempo with some big booming drums, it's one of the most country efforts Montgomery has tackled in a while.Billy Yates and Jim Collins' "Break This Chain" is another superb country offering. Almost delivered as a prayer, "Break This Chain" expresses the desperate plea of an alcoholic for deliverance for the sake of his family. To my ears, this is one of the most moving tear jerker I have had heard in a while. Nevertheless, not all is sad. The hopeless romantic can put their fainting heart to ease: "That Changes Everything," penned by David Lee and Tony Lane (who were also responsible for crafting the title cut) is a gentle yet beautiful ballad extolling love's power to "change everything."However, not everything works here. Montgomery's sensitivity can work against him when the material is not right. I find Paul Overstreet and Marty Dodson's "It Rocked" excruciatingly sappy. "It Rocked" celebrates the milestones of life: first love, first car, first job.... Come on, I think this is a little too maudlin! I am already starting to get a tooth ache, it's just too sugary. I am sure Montgomery or/and producer Bryon Gallimore must have felt that way too. So, to boost Montgomery's machismo, we have the propulsive honky tonk number "Goes Good With Beer." With Montgomery's crisp free suit and his family man image portrayed in the other songs, I find it hard to believe when Montgomery sings about hanging with his crazy buddies and those "pretty girls" in a smoke filled tavern as he professes in "Goes Good With Beer." A tad more believable is the funky yet somehow raunchy "Little Devil"-though "Little Devil" sounds like a recycle of Montgomery's number 1 hit, "Be My Baby Tonight."Aside from these few detours, "Letters from Home," as the title suggests, appeals to the heart. With country radio's incessant appetite for heart tugging tunes, "Letters from Home" could easily be one of Montgomery's most radio friendly albums. In fact, I believe this album is hued with chart hits. This is a much welcomed return to form for Montgomery.

