product/productId: 0312322291
product/title: King James: Believe the Hype---The LeBron James Story
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A3CG69ANXE6ZE3
review/profileName: L. Chencinski
review/helpfulness: 0/0
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1208390400
review/summary: King James Scores!
review/text: Ryan Jones is a great basketball writer. In King James: The LeBron James Story he does a great job of trying to show the reader how amazingly good LeBron James is at basketball. Coach Bob Gibbons said about LeBron's performance in the Olympic trials, "I don't want to blow too much smoke and distort the kid's thinking, but I saw Kobe Bryant in tenth and eleventh grades, and I think this kid is more advanced than Kobe was." Like LeBron, Kobe Bryant was drafted out of high school and has led the Los Angeles Lakers to multiple NBA Championships.Ryan Jones is editor-in-chief at SLAM, the monthly basketball magazine that combined the sport with hip hop culture at a time when the genre was becoming increasingly popular. The magazine carries advertising for basketball-related products, street-wear clothing and hip hop music, and it has been credited with helping to market hip hop culture and basketball as one. It is only fitting that Ryan Jones wrote his first national magazine feature on LeBron James. He thoroughly explains LeBron's involvement with SLAM magazine throughout the book. He lives in New York with his wife and son.Although Jones seems a bit repetitive at times, his knowledge of basketball and great style shines though and creates an easy to read biography. In Chaper Four, he talks about the potential LeBron possessed in football as well as basketball: even though "there wasn't much national buzz on LeBron the football player, area football coaches knew better." Jones even compares him to the New England Patriots Pro-Bowl wideout, Randy Moss. While he mainly focuses on LeBron's basketball ability, his information about LeBron's high school football career is refreshing.With all the hype about LeBron and his constant coverage on ESPN, this book reveals the truth about LeBron and his journey from moving in with his friend's family to his 90 million dollar sneaker deal with Nike. While the vocabulary can be a bit easy at times, the book a joy to read, especially if you are a total sports nut like myself. A stong strength of Jones is to tell the complete story of every little event in Lebron's life. His very descriptive writing explains aspects of basketball that makes this book a good pick for sports lovers and non sports lovers alike. I give this book an eight out of ten and recommend it highly.

