product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A38QSOKE2DD8JD
review/profileName: Christopher Walden
review/helpfulness: 1/1
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1088121600
review/summary: Pleasant to the ear, musical masterpiece
review/text: Final fantasy fans may be at first skeptical of Chrono Cross's composition and production under unknown Yasunori Mitsuda, but never fear, Uematsu serves a minor role as Executive Producer! Mistuda knew what music hit home in this Celtic-themed OST. Believe me, I was skeptical as a Final Fantasy fan, until I played the game and couldn't help sitting there listening to the music!The collection is a 3-CD masterpiece. The CD's are in tracks that are appropriately given up in chronological order, and you can picture playing through the game in your mind. What's awesome is the range of new instruments and styles in the sequel to the RPG of all RPGs. MIDI sequences can't show what the original version does in this OST. Rated a 10 by EGM for best music waaaay back in the day, it's not unfounded.Okay, so the insert is in japanese - keep in mind you can't find this thing in the states anymore. DigiCube's downfall makes it hard enough to find this thing, so grab it while you can. You can get translations in a variety of places that no longer have the CDs in stock (there are a few, believe me). If you loved the game, this is a required. If you are a video game music fan, consider it as essential as the FF7 OST and remember the name Yasunori Mitsuda.Things to keep an eye out for - Disc 1, Track 7 displays a theme that you hear throughout the game, and it sounds great to hear it again. All of Disc 3 is pure musical rewards, and Track 7 on it is... well, to avoid spoling too much... it's worth the $32 plus shipping. Oh, and for all the big press Radical Dreamers and Magical Dreamers get, it's worth it even if you haven't played the games all the way through - there aren't any spoilers to ruin the experience. Just pure, amazing rpg music worthy of the title of the game.I ordered this right before going on a Choir Concert Tour Ireland, and the Celtic themes helped me enjoy the experience to the fullest!Oh, if you're considering playing the game, do what I DID NOT DO, and what others hope to do - Play Chrono Trigger First, then Chrono Cross, if you can.

