product/productId: B0006D6DRK
product/title: Open marriage;: A new life style for couples,
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A1IMB8FTTTJN12
review/profileName: parnassus2
review/helpfulness: 16/18
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1162425600
review/summary: title refers to open communication and self examination, not swinging
review/text: Please don't be confused by the unfortunate choice of title, nor by the ridiculous books promoting promiscuity that are associated with it by Amazon databases.Let's examine the two negative reviews of this book.One reviewer admits that he had decided the book wasn't worthwhile before reading it, and proceeds with an attitude that dares the authors to change his mind. This is hardly an "open" reading, is it? Further, the message of this book is in no way negated by a supposed divorce between the authors. The authors of Open Marriage specifically instruct readers to examine their expectation that marriage lasts forever.Another reviewer has a vested interest in dismissing Open Marriage, because its ideas contradict those of a book he wrote. He is careful to advertise his own book in his negative review of Open Marriage.As for whether Open Marriage is outdated, since when did such things as communication and trust become outdated? With extremes of ideology and dogma on a rapid increase, a book that promotes careful examination of our assumptions and expectations before getting married has never been more relevant. Has Socrates' dictum "An unexamined life is not worth living" ever gone out of date?Briefly, I'll quote from chapter 4:"The guidelines [to healthy relationships] are as follows:1 realistic expectations2 privacy3 open and honest communication4 flexibility in roles5 open companionship6 equality7 identity8 trustWhere do love, sex, and fidelity fit in? Are these not guidelines too - the basic components of any marriage? Important, yes; guidelines, no. Many of the problems with the closed marriage [defined by poor communication, lack of trust, immaturity etc.] stem from a false concept of the part that love, sex, and fidelity play in the relationship between man and a woman. The guidelines of open marriage listed above form the basis upon which love, sex, and fidelity achieve their meaning, not vice versa. If personal identity is based on love, equality measured by sex, and trust defined by fidelity, then identity will be crushed by a lessening of the initial romantic fervor, equality diminished by a temporary failure in sex, and trust destroyed through even the appearance of infidelity. But if personal identity, equality and trust exist in full measure, then the normal fluctuations that occur in any relationship between two human beings can be taken in stride."One way of looking at the book Open Marriage is to say that the authors are discussing which comes first, the chicken or the egg? They are revealing that love, sex, and fidelity are outcomes of mature relating, thus not the cause of mature relating. If we reverse causation and pursue the product directly, without the process, than we set in motion a degradation from expectation, to demands, to manipulation, to frustration, and ending in "bitter disappointment" (chapter 4). For example, suspicious jealousy pursues fidelity directly, bypassing the process of building trust and commitment. On the other hand, when we follow the above 8 principles of healthy relating, the likely outcome is love, and fidelity. I recall a TV Sitcom in which a holiday family reunion wasn't going well, and someone angrily threatened that "we all had better start having fun right now!" Again, pursuit of the outcome directly without the process, results in our realizing the very thing we most fear (can you hear echoes of Dr. Phil McGraw in this?)The authors are saying that an unexamined marriage will fail because our unconscious assumptions, demands, and expectations are going to take over, and a great deal of negative conflict will result. These authors are simply saying that we need to pay attention and be proactive, examine our thoughts and feelings openly, and negotiate a mutually acceptable relationship. This open communication and cooperation, as opposed to conflict, is what the authors refer to in the title of their book. They are referring to a Socratic openness to challenging one`s own thoughts and behaviors as a basis of healthy living. This point is strongly supported by Dr. M. Scott Peck, author of The Road Less Traveled, who refers to Open Marriage on page 93 of ...Traveled. Dr. Peck's says the same thing with a different metaphor: we ought to examine our mental "maps" and be willing to revise them to keep ourselves dedicated to reality. Let Dr. Peck's reference carry more weight than mine.

