product/productId: B0006D6DRK
product/title: Open marriage;: A new life style for couples,
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A160ZFE22Z8EZV
review/profileName: SerenaBlackCat "Serena"
review/helpfulness: 1/1
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1338249600
review/summary: Actually, some decent advice.
review/text: The criticisms of this book are mostly about its non-monogamous aspect: the O'Neills (allegedly) broke up, therefore their relationship style is null and void. By this logic, is monogamy null and void, because monogamous people divorce? No type of relationship--straight, gay, monogamous, polyamorous, etc--is guaranteed against breakup. There are also horrendous relationships that are together forever because of desperation or beliefs. Even if there is a higher percentage of breakup in a certain relationship style, is "together until death" the only measure of a valid relationship?As many people pointed out, "open marriage" back then didn't mean specifically what it does now. In this book it means communicating openly, treating each other as equals, and allowing each other personal freedom. Most of this book is about how to get along better in a relationship by remembering that you both are individuals. You don't have to do everything together or have everything in common. You don't have to give up separate interests that your partner doesn't share. You don't have to give up friends when you get married. Giving up things like that don't make couples closer; they make couples resent each other and also take away their outside support systems.They mention non-monogamy as a possibility if both partners agree to it. They mention that depending on the context, sex with another person may not be the most horrible betrayal in a marriage (I said, depending on context. There are plenty of times it is a major betrayal.) Specifically I remember the passage about "the grass is always greener", and how with no fence, there is less of that feeling.My criticism of the "love and sex without jealousy" chapter is they talk about not having jealousy, but aren't very specific about how to deal with it and how to overcome it. (There are other books on open relationships that go into more detail about that.)Another criticism is that at times it relies on a premise of both people having careers that allow for economic independence. A career like that is not available to all people; there is no reason that only people with good careers should be able to have good relationships.There are lots of self-help books that promise a "one and only way" to have a satisfying relationship if you follow some off-the-wall advice, including the "emotional infidelity" variety that do advise couples to avoid friends and spend all of their time together. This book, in comparison, is common sense. Whether you want to be monogamous or non-monogamous, I think this book provides practical advice that should be elementary, but often isn't.

