product/productId: B0000630MK
product/title: Sony CCDTRV108 Hi8 Camcorder with 2.5" LCD
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A13I729IPODO2H
review/profileName: Aldon K Samaha
review/helpfulness: 0/0
review/score: 4.0
review/time: 1318204800
review/summary: Serendipity!
review/text: I was very pleased with the video camera. However, it had a problem which turned out to be a blessing in disguise. Like my original camera, it wouldn't move the tape in any direction. More than that, the tape would not go all the way down and came back out. Then I noticed that a rubber roller (turned out to be the capstan roller) was loose at the bottom of the tape area blocking the tape from going all the way down. I shook it out, but the tape wouldn't move ... just like the problem with my original video camera. Upon looking closer at my original camera, I noticed the capstan roller was loose in it also but not in a position that didn't prevent the tape from loading. After finding the manual on-line, I saw where the capstan went.I know I wouldn't have been able to fix my original camera if I hadn't purchased my new cameral through Amazon. Since I just paid half of what the original camera cost me (which was already heavily discounted), I am very happy with the result. Further searching on-line revealed to me that this is a common problem with this camera. The solution was also revealed ... always have a tape in the camera, and the capstan will not get loose. I suspect that when the camera was mailed to me that it was working fine, but the rigors of the shipment probably knocked the capstan loose since it came with no tape insideSony CCDTRV118 Hi8 Camcorder with 2.5" LCD. I am very happy at this unusual experience, and continue to be delighted that I have had great results everytime I purchase anything from Amazon. The reason I purchased the 2nd camera is that I have a lot of tapes of my grandson (now 21) playing Little League baseball that I want to copy onto DVDs and now will take more videos of my younger grandson playing ball. One thing I've always loved about this camera is that it is easy to use, and it has a zoom to "kill for." Sometimes I use it as an electronic telescope because it is so powerful.

