product/productId: 1559701315
product/title: Mary, Mary
product/price: unknown
review/userId: unknown
review/profileName: unknown
review/helpfulness: 2/4
review/score: 1.0
review/time: 1071964800
review/summary: Fissure a mile-wide in this thin, confusing novel.
review/text: Early on in this story reader is informed that main character has a split personality. 3 girls are murdered and buried in back yard of Mary Barton, protagonist. Mary B. is sweet and loves her garden. Her other half is wicked to the max. The novel starts with her cussing like a sailor, wholly unlike sweet Mary B. The incredibly stupid atty. doesn't infer anything about the seeming two Mary's. Mary B. charged with murder that she obviously committed. Most of book contains court scenes that are well-written but are merely banal and static, the story stops. After conviction inevitable knife attack on atty by bad Mary, who we now learn is a twin of good Mary; at least that's the way the book reads. Within the reality of the book this is impossible and nonsense. But the reader is supposed to believe that good Mary has an evil twin who did the killings...I read the ending of the novel several times to see if it was communicating to the reader that the bad Mary was just the evil side of Mary B., i.e. she has a split personality. But, no, the book is saying that there are two Maries...not one with a good and bad side. If you want to read a lot of fairly interesting courtroom questioning by prosecutor and def. atty, most of the book is irrelevantly devoted to this, so read it and enjoy an O.J. moment. Perhaps the worst mystery/suspense novel I have ever read. This is my fourth and last McBain novel. HIs stories read at supersonic speed and purposefully divert the reader from thinking about the plot, characters, conflict,etc. Recommended solely for no-depth crowd of mystery readers (90% of readers are in this category; hence, the popularity ofjames patterson, Sue Grafton, Kellerman's,and many more; can anyone actually read Elizabeth George's prose and not become constipated and nauseous). Also, irrelevant romance between Mary's defense atty and female prosecutor. Added nothing to story, except perhaps to be a lame red herring that the femme fatale might have something to do with the murders.

