product/productId: B000058A81
product/title: Chrono Cross: Original Soundtrack
product/price: unknown
review/userId: AKZLIIH3AP4RU
review/profileName: IcemanJ
review/helpfulness: 1/1
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1075939200
review/summary: Much more than a game Soundtrack.
review/text: This has got to be one of the best video game soundtracks ever. I've actually never really played the game, but somehow discovered the music of it, proving you don't have to like the game to like the soundtrack. I'm sure the game is also great, and maybe someday I'll purchase a PS2 and play it.The way the few different main themes are repeated throughout the discs makes it so much more epic and adventurous. The same notes, played at a different speed and with different instruments can have such different moods, and are certainly not repetitive.Many songs consist of synthesized violins, guitars, Japanese instruments and other stringed instruments, also pianos, interesting percussion, and many other synthesized sounds. The songs are made up of clear, well-produced melodious tones and notes. There are so many different moods on this cd... nostalgic, melancholic, joyful, tense, epic, pensive, spooky, calm, wondrous, ethereal, delightful, catchy... the list goes on. Of course, the music styles range from Celtic sounding, to traditional Japanese, to neoclassical, etc. all blended together nicely with Yasunori Mitsuda's special touch. A lot of the songs really make me think &quot;epic&quot; in one way or another. Many songs are also edgy or stressful like the music for a battle or difficult journey, but sometimes with a childlike tinge, suggesting the fantasy/anime aspect of the game (I'm not saying anime is childish, rather the music sounds that way at times, in a good way) Some songs have soaring melodies that revive the valiant atmosphere of the soundtrack, others have quite gloomy moods, some have simple, charming melodies, some have more spooky or haunting moods, some sound sort of like a big fairground or joyful gathering, and some have more of a feeling of a specific area like a maritime or tropical place - illustrating all the elements of a long, adventurous, tiring journey of many different perils, mysteries, and missions of all sizes.Obviously there are a lot of separate tracks on this soundtrack to encompass every single moment of music in the game (Why would you want to leave anything out?) but even the songs less than a minute are quite good. I'm not going to point out specific tracks because I'd end up listing about one-third of them, nor will I describe many specific tracks; every song is worth listening to, from start to finish. The most talked about song &quot;Radical Dreamers&quot; is a nice song with female vocals in Japanese that follows the main theme of the album, and I can see why most people consider it the best song on here, particularly the last minute or so with the angelic-like hum and amazing, gentle acoustic guitar melodies. The immaculate music box style melody after Radical Dreamers concludes the album with a very memorable sensation.I mentioned in my list of adjectives &quot;nostalgic&quot;: of course it will feel truly nostalgic if you've played the game a few years ago and didn't think about buying the soundtrack until now, reminiscing parts of the game you struggled at and enjoyed while you listen. But if you didn't have the game, it might trigger memories about other games or certain times in childhood... even though this game isn't very old at all. That may sound really weird, but it happens to me a little... I remember having fun with many SNES games since I didn't play through this.This album is sincerely worth the import price, not only is it a triple album with 67 tracks lasting over 3 hours, but is by far the most inspiring game soundtrack I've heard so far and can be enjoyed by people with the most diverse tastes. After listening to this for the first few times, it seems superior to everything else in your music collection.

