product/productId: B00064MUJE
product/title: Alphabet Blocks
product/price: unknown
review/userId: A1M3H01S60KPEI
review/profileName: xyzzy
review/helpfulness: 0/0
review/score: 5.0
review/time: 1199318400
review/summary: Better than I expected
review/text: I purchased Peek-A-Blocks for both my 1-year old niece and my 8-month old nephew. The nephew lives across the country, so I can't evaluate his opinion of the product. However, my 1-year old niece just loves these blocks. Her 5-year old sister loves them too. The younger niece can easily grab hold of the blocks, and she loves the bright colors. The older niece loves to stack them.The blocks are much more interactive than I first thought they would be. Sure, some of the blocks have loose plastic balls within, and some items are mounted on bouncy springs. However, it's not obvious from the packaging that many other blocks have rotating bases, which allow items within to move around. For example, one block has a train that rotates in and out of a mountain tunnel. There are other nice touches. For example, tapping the fish block causes the fish within to appear as though they are swimming.Lastly, I want to point out an initial hesitation I had about buying these blocks -- a hesitation which turned out to be of no real concern. Years ago, I bought a set of 6 peek-a-blocks for a friend's son. At that time, the blocks were sold in themed sets of 6 blocks (sports, machines, etc). More recently, Fisher Price did away with the smaller sets, replacing them with one large set of 26 blocks, each with a printed alphabet letter on one side. (C = car, D = duck, H = horse, etc.) Anyway, I initially hesitated buying the newer set of Alphabet Peek-A-Blocks, because I thought the alphabet letters would obstruct a child's ability to see the content of the block. However, as I have already mentioned, many blocks allow the contents to be rotated, such that the printed letter no longer blocks a child's view of the content within.In concluding, I am very pleased with the purchase. The kids are too.

