product/productId: B000FZEKVA
product/title: Communicating with Orcas - The Whales' Perspective
product/price: 4.30
review/userId: A26VGIYR3MBPBX
review/profileName: Chelsea Lynn "C.L.S"
review/helpfulness: 3/5
review/score: 2.0
review/time: 1286409600
review/summary: Not Convinced...
review/text: I got this book about 3 years ago, and I was really excited, because I got it for Christmas. Little did I realise I was actually getting a narative about a woman who says she can telepathically communicate with animals.Now, don't get me wrong. I have done research into the telepathic Animal Communication, even as a freshman in college right now I have done more research into it. And even though there seems to be something, I have yet to see a bonified scientific study followed by a scientific peer reviewed paper on these experiences people have. And even as a person going into a minor Psychology I know that Psychological and behavioral studies are very difficult, becuase of the amazing amount of variables that are caused by the extremely complex brain, alone. But even I can not take much of this at face value.I believe her, I don't think she is lying. I question the validity of the actual communication. Is she really linking mentally to this orca, or is this her not fully understanding the duality that many people fall into, and is she thinking that is J2 (or Granny we call her) talking to her?I really want to give her credit and I really wanted to believe her, but I can't. She didn't give me much to really grab onto as a convincing argument for her so called abilities. And she is not the first animal communicator I have done a little research on. There was one woman mentioned in "Freeing Keiko" who said that whales and dolphins were essentially extraterrestrial beings that were guiding the earth through space. Another woman said that Greyhound dogs were also extraterrestrial beings.Just the simple fact that there is glaring inconstancies between different animal communicators should be enough evidence that there really isn't too much, if anything, to Telepathic Animal Communication.It was an entertianing book, I rather enjoyed it. But I am a sceptic. And being a sceptic I would be completely honest about my position. If something really seems to make sense, I will say it does. But this book didn't. And saying that, I would not be talking about this book to my friends or family. If it does turn up in conversation, it will most likely be during our psuedopyschological studies. That is unless someone can show me a real study that is so sound as to prove me wrong. To which, if it did prove me wrong I would say so.

