product/productId: 1890951617
product/title: Academic Freedom after September 11
product/price: 22.95
review/userId: AU7ND6NOCX9IA
review/profileName: Jill Malter
review/helpfulness: 6/41
review/score: 1.0
review/time: 1142380800
review/summary: Dishonest
review/text: Most of the authors of this book say, in effect, that they are accused of being anti-American. By right-wing fanatics! But that in fact, they are merely stating unpopular views, and are in fact simply being honest.Unfortunately, the truth is that these folks are totally dishonest. And, in some cases, they are unpatriotic as well. On top of that, some of them unequivocally support right-wing Islamic fanaticism. What they frequently appear to want is not academic freedom but the right to engage in academic dishonesty, often in a misguided attempt to hurt a few Jews.We start with a spectacularly dishonest article by Beshara Doumani. He moans that "pro-Israel lobbying groups" and others are "policing what can be said about Israel on campus and in public discourse." Obviously, anyone who has been on a few major American campuses can see that the anti-Israeli folks have been far more effective at doing just this. He says that Lawrence Summers "effectively equated criticism of Israel's policies with anti-Semitism." That's a lie. He then defends the infamous anti-Israeli professors at Columbia University, who in real life substitute racist propaganda for scholarship in the classroom. And he dismisses criticism of this attack on academic standards as the work of right-wing groups, pro-Israeli groups, and donors. Even if some criticism of all this dishonesty were from such groups, that would not invalidate it! He tells us to speak and act before it is too late. I suggest we all do just that, and speak out against him.There are a couple of interesting discussions about the extent to which a professor's "extracurricular" work should be protected. My feeling is that it should be. Noam Chomsky is used as an example. I happen to think that Chomsky ought to have a right to tell outright lies as part of his extracurricular activities as long as he does not commit any felonies. Others feel differently about this, and still others feel that even outright academic dishonesty in one's professional work ought to be okay (something I disagree with completely).By the way, speaking of felonies, we do see a reference that Sami al-Arian was "disciplined for a statement concerning terrorism." But no mention is made of the enormous amount of evidence that al-Arian had long been a terrorist leader. In fact, that evidence finally got al-Arian fired. Are we now supposed to excuse felons, dismissing their crimes under the mantle of academic freedom? I hope not.Judith Butler repeats the slander that "any criticism of Israel" is called anti-Semitic by quite a few folks. And she complains about criticism of the notorious International Solidarity Movement. If she wants to make a case for something, I think she ought to be far more honest. Kathleen Frydl attacks the idea of withholding funding from universities if their expenditures promote "violence, terrorism, or the destruction of any state." Now, maybe the wording of such an idea needs some work. But I think it is completely proper to try to stop universities from spending taxpayer money on pro-terrorist propaganda.Amy Newhall is worried about the United States attaching strings to some language programs. But I think she's the problem here. There are programs that the United States government supports to teach, for example, Arabic in universities. The government does so in the hopes that at least a few students in such programs will use their knowledge of the language to work for the government. If the university encourages them not to do so and we wind up without any benefit from those programs, I think there is no reason to continue them: let the universities use their own money to teach Arabic in that case.Perhaps the most vicious article is by Joel Beinin. Beinin seems to attack everyone who opposes the substitution of dishonest propaganda for scholarly work, calling such opposition the work of people he dubs "the American Likud." He says "this is not the first time right-wing fanatics have waged a campaign of vilification, guilt by association, guilt by ethnic or religious affiliation, and delegitimization of dissenting opinions." And in this regard, he mentions HUAC and Joe McCarthy. But in fact, it is Beinin himself who is doing all this, in the service of right-wing fanatics no less. A special target of Beinin is a particularly praiseworthy organization, Campus Watch. This organization exposes some of the disinformation and incitement we see on campus, but Beinin claims that what it reports is "false and brazenly bigoted." It is neither. Once again, Beinin appears to accuse others of what he himself is guilty of.This book pretends to be defending academia. In fact, it is defending academic dishonesty. This dishonesty is a threat to ruin the reputations of plenty of academic departments and possibly discredit entire fields of study. I think we should all encourage the academic community to fight against such violations of academic standards.

